# A Discussion About the Merits of Chat GPT

Chat GPT has taken the world by storm, reaching 1 million users in just the first 5 days of its launch. It is a chatbot that is used to relay information in a conversational and understandable manner. Because of how easily utilized Chat GPT is, there are many ongoings debates about how to adapt to what this program will do for education and many occupations. In this document, I will discuss two articles that highlight the risks and benefits of this innovative technology.

## The Merits of Chat GPT: An Analysis of _[Chat GPT is a Tipping Point for AI]_(https://hbr.org/2022/12/chatgpt-is-a-tipping-point-for-ai)

This article discusses how monumental Chat GPT is because it makes information more accessible and easy to understand. The article talks about the history of similar AI programs, noting that Chat GPT produces more polished and human-like answers. It also demonstrates the many ways in which Chat GPT can be utilized with interesting examples. One paragraph of the article is written by Chat GPT itself, and the author notes that the AI even revised its work based on what what author wanted. It also notes that tasks take considerably less time and effort with Chat GPT, and claims that this AI and other similar softwares will be transformative for humankind. The article also somewhat delves into the negative aspects of the AI, noting that the fact that it is capable of so much may make certain skills and jobs obsolete. 

In my opinion, this article does a good job of highlighting why Chat GPT will be revolutionary for many occupations. Although it's true that Chat GPT and other similar AI will eventually make certain jobs and skills unnecessary, this is not a bad thing in the long run. Many people, for instance, were upset by how easily accessible information is because of [Google](www.google.com) when it was first released because of the same reasons people feel threatened by Chat GPT now. It is fair to be somewhat skeptical of technological advancements, but AI will only open more doors for automation and progress in the future. 

## The Downsides to Chat GPT: An Analysis of _[The New Chatbots Could Change the World. Can You Trust Them?]_(https://www.nytimes.com/2022/12/10/technology/ai-chat-bot-chatgpt.html)

This article from the New York Times offers a more pessimistic perspective on Chat GPT and similar AI. After introducing Chat GPT and its capabilities, the article introduces the idea that chat bots are sometimes very incorrect, and the quality of information that these bots provide can range from extremely useful to completely untrue. The article introduces the concept of "hallucination", where chat bots will take preexisting information and reshape it into something new, even when this is not the intended outcome of the user. It also discusses that these chat bots often fail to provide correct answers for simple arithmetic questions and basic factual questions. 

In my opinion, although it is troubling that chat bots do not always provide an accurate solution to the asker's problems, this should not deter from how useful Chat GPT is and will be in the future. The benefits of Chat GPT, especially the fact that it can provide condensed and understandable information to a multitude of questions, outweighs the negative that it is sometimes wrong. As someone who has grown up with the internet, I've always been told to take what I read online with a grain of salt and question everything I read. The same is true for the answers provided by Chat GPT. If one thinks of these chat bots more as a resource to complete their own work, rather than a tool to replace their own need to think and produce work, they will have a much better and easier time working. 
